and now bill heads portfolio manager for
the Royce funds this is an investment
management firm focused on small cap
value investing the Royce funds is one
of the industry's most experienced and
highly respected small cap value
investment managers with 35 billion in
assets under management now let's go to
the interview with Bill hench we are
here with Bill hench assistant manager
of the Royce opportunity fund and the
manager of the Royce opportunity select
fund bill now that we've made it past
the fiscal cliff what's your outlook for
2013 sure our outlook is one of
continued recovery or even strength in
the auto sector and the housing sector
which we think will lead to better
employment going forward we're also
looking for a turnaround in technology
and possibly a little bit uptick in
interest rates overall we think it could
be a pretty good year great the market
tones been strong lately how do you
think stocks are valued right now are
things still cheap uh well as always you
have some groups that are that are a
little expensive and others that you
know we think offer very very good value
you've had a nice recovery and housing
you've had a nice recovering some of the
auto sector stocks but you still had a
tremendous lag in technology and that
continues to be a lot of value there we
think so if you pick your spots psychic
you know we think that there are very
very good opportunities so as always you
just have to be very careful about your
entry point all right you've been
investing for a long time bill what are
some of your key value investing methods
for small caps sure well with small caps
we try to be very very diverse our
feeling is that no matter how well you
think you know something no matter how
much research you do there's always that
big possibility of being surprised we
call it a left field event something
that you may have never thought about or
something that seemed highly unlikely
and if you're concentrated that could
kill your years
we try to be very very diverse we don't
let positions get more than one percent
of the portfolio if they do we start
cutting them back regardless of how
wonderful the story sounds so diversity
has always been very very big with us
and obviously valuation we try to buy
things at very very good prices very low
price to sales low price to book we
don't use P necessarily because we're
generally buying turnarounds and as such
either the P is very high or in some
instances they're not earning any money
so there is nothing to look at so we try
to normalize earnings and we try to to
give the company's a good good period to
adjust and to fix whatever problem it is
that that got them to be sort of value
staunch of cheap stocks if you will all
right in closing bill is being a
contrarian a good way to take advantage
of undervalued securities it is it's
it's very very difficult and I've been
here with buzz I know who's been
investing in small names for about 35
years but it's always hard to go against
the flow it's always hard to go against
the grain and you'd like to say that you
know it's something that I've been doing
for 10 years or 20 years and I'm used to
it and I know what to look for but it
still is very very difficult to to go
against you know sort of the Church of
what's happening now right you have to
be disciplined it's important to be a
contrarian but you know as someone else
I know said it's very also very
important to be right so you you know
you've got to pick your spots you've got
to really be patient and if you're able
to be patient and diversified there's
usually a lot of opportunity especially
in the small names especially in the
micro cap names right bill good stuff
thank you so much thanks for very much
for having
you